I declare restarted the period of sessions of the European Parliament, interrupted the Friday 17 December past, and reassert to His *Señorías my desire that they have had some good holidays.
As all have been able to check, the big "effect of the year 2000" has not produced . Instead, the citizens of varied of our countries have been victims of natural catastrophes truly terrible.
His *Señorías have requested a debate on the subject for the next days, in the course of this period of sessions.
It would be appropriate that you, Lady President, wrote a card to the President of Sri Lanka expressing the *condolencias of the Parliament by this and other violent deaths, asking him that do all the possible to find a peaceful reconciliation in front of the extremely difficult situation that is living his country?
My question refers  to a subject of the that will speak  the Thursday, day that in will go back to pose it.
The report *Cunha on the programs of direction *plurianual presents  to the Parliament the Thursday and contains a proposal in the section 6 around a form of penalties based in quotas that has to apply to the countries that do not fulfil annually his aims of reduction of fleet.
His *Señoría, if like this it wishes it, will be able to pose this question in this moment, that is to say, the Thursday before it present  the report.
On request of a French deputy, the Mr. *Zimeray, has presented  an application, whose signatories have been numerous and among which count me, however, of compliance with the constantly expressed position by the European Parliament and by all the European Community, ask him that it take part with the prestige of his charge and of the Institution that represents in front of the President and the Governor of the State of Texas, Mr. Bush, that has the faculty to suspend the conviction to death and of *indultar to the convict.
It is, definitely, inside the line of the positions that our Parliament always has adopted.
We know and we have affirmed it really in a lot of resolutions -precisely in the last session *plenaria of the past year- that this is not only a juridical case and that it is an error accuse to Alexander *Nikitin of criminal behaviour and of treachery, because we, as affected by his results, obtain benefit of her.
Yes, lady *Schroedter, of good wins go to examine the facts related with this subject in what it receive his card.
Lady President, in the first place would like me congratulate it for having fulfilled with his promise since sure enough in this first period of sessions of the new year has expanded  drastically the number of canals in our dispatches.
Why they have not improved  the stairs from my accident?
The Group of the Party of the European Socialists requests that it include  a statement of the Commission on his strategic aims for the next five years, as well as on the administrative reform of the Commission.
Lady President, the presentation of the political program of the Commission *Prodi for all the term of office was initially a proposal of the Group of the Party of the European Socialists that attained the unanimity of the Conference of Presidents in September and also the explicit acceptance of the President *Prodi, that reasserted his commitment in his speech of investiture.
Memory besides, lady President, that this Parliament voted in two occasions in the anterior term of office his confidence in the President *Prodi; in this term of office voted it again in July and afterwards, with the new Commission in functions, went back in September to give him a vote of confidence to all the Commission.
Therefore, already there has been sufficient time so that the Commission prepare his program and so that we can know it and can explain it to the citizens.
According to words of his President, is in conditions to do it.
Since the Commission is represented by the Vice-president, Mrs. of Palace, think that before voting would be convenient to know the situation of the Commission in relation with his availability to present the program, such as it had suited ); or the Parliament is not in conditions to examine this program, as it looks that they pretend some.
In my opinion, this second hypothesis would mean to do *dejación of our responsibilities like Parliament, in addition to entering an original thesis, a consistent unknown method in giving to know to the political groups by writing the speech *programático of the Commission a week before -and no the day before, as it had suited -, #take that the legislative program will argue  in February, in such a way that we could dispense of the debate, because the next day the press and Internet would have given it to know to all the citizens and the Parliament would not have already why occupy of the subject.
As my Group thinks that a Parliament is done to listen, to debate and for *reflexionar, think that there is not reason some that justify this postponement and think that if, the Commission is in conditions to do it, are perfectly to time to be able to reestablish the original agreement among the Parliament and the Commission and proceed with responsibility in front of our *conciudadanas and our *conciudadanos.
Therefore, the proposal that does the Group of the Party of the European Socialists and that his *Señoría has mentioned is that the Wednesday maintain  the presentation of the program of term of office of the Commission *Prodi, including inside this program also the project of administrative reform because, of not being like this, can find us with a paradoxical situation: with the excuse that there is not text, denies  by a part the right to the President of the Commission to speak in this Parliament and, on the other hand, that take place a debate on the reform without that this Parliament know previously the texts in that it bases .
. Lady President, want to leave very clear that, first of all, the Commission has the maximum respect by the decisions of this Parliament and, among them, the one to establish his agenda.
I propose that we vote the request of the Group of the Party of the European Socialists to go back to include the statement of the Commission on his strategic aims.
They have said me that also wide circles of the Socialist Group see willingly the suppression of this point in the order of the day, since in the vote *habida in the Conference of Presidents was missing the vote of the group of competent work for this of our pals of the Socialist Group.
Therefore, my Group requests that it suppress  this point of the day.
We have argued, we express unanimity, with exception of the Groups of the *PPE and of the European Party of the Liberal Democrats and Reformist, and I same did to note -as they will remember it my wanted mates presidents- that does not treat  to know if they are you in favour or against of the tax *Todin, but to know if they dare to comprise what think in this regard the Commission and the Council.
Lady President, has  *contabilizado my vote, that has not been able to be made electronically, because I do not have the card?
My vote was "in favour" .
Lady President, in the anterior vote -and will abide by me his decision in this subject- on the question of the strategic plan of the Commission, indicated that it would have liked me speak before the vote for my Group.
It would appreciate him that, to the closing of this point, allowed me  give an explanation of the vote for my Group.
It would be useful that the record of the Camera registered how perceives the people what have done to the light of his own political analyses.
Lady President, do not wish to restart the debate, but had asked also the word to give my opinion about the amendment of the Mr. Baron *Crespo.
When tomorrow it treat  the approval of the Record of the session of today, if His *Señorías estimate that the positions have not explained  the quite well, will be able to ask modifications.
Lady President, if in the register of the vote states correctly how has voted my Group, neither want to neither can pose objection any.
If his decision is that we can not explain our vote, will observe it, but no wholehearted.
I consider that they have had  satisfactorily in account our amendments of the first reading.
In determinate locations of my country produced  really a chaotic situation.
Also we have to procure consistently that our aims are incorporated to the national legislations by the States members in the terms fixed and, even more important, have to procure that afterwards they are spent to the practice.
The report treats of the question to harmonise the requirements of examination for the advisers of security that exert his task in the field of the transport of dangerous commodities by road, roads *férreas and fluvial roads.
I congratulate him by his excellent report.
The speaker has signalled to the Camera that the Council has accepted in his common position six of the ten parliamentary amendments presented in first reading, and that has #take the essence of the others amendments of the Parliament.
Therefore, my Group goes to lean this common position and wait that adopt  a legislation that provide us another tool in our fight for augmenting all the possible the security of the transport in the European Union.
When it treats  of security my Group always will lean initiatives that augment the security in the transport.
In the first place, I want to appreciate to the speaker his extraordinarily precise and technical work in this report, and second, want to appreciate to the Commission the proposal that has presented.
I gladden me that there is also an agreement with the Council on the minimum requirements for his examination, although it had preferred that they had created  some fixed and uniform norms, so that the certificates were equal from the international point of view.
Gentleman President, lady Commissioner, estimated pals, first of all, wanted to congratulate to our pal, the Mr. *Koch, by his reports, which perhaps are technical reports, but *revisten a big importance for the security.
In the first place, I want to ask to the Mrs. Commissioner -and am sure that my desire falls in fertile soil- that devote a main attention to the question of the security, was this in road, in railway or in the fluvial roads.
The third point has been mentioned also: the same that our pal, the Mr. *Rack, proceed of a country of traffic in which this question exerts a special paper.
. Gentleman President, in the first place want to congratulate to the speaker, Mr. *Koch, by his glorious work and by his positive collaboration with the Commission to the hour to improve the texts, to present this report and this proposal; at the end, only there is a relative amendment to the requirements of the examination of aptitude of the advisers of security for the transport of dangerous commodities by road, railway or navigable road.
*Brevísimamente, want to appreciate also the intervention of the distinct deputies and say them to his *Señorías that the security is a priority of the Commission in the field of the transports.
In this sense, want to refer me also very in brief to the problems of the tunnels, to that have done reference the Gentlemen *Rack and Swoboda, that, undoubtedly, in the case of Austria, is a very sensitive subject, by what it is necessary to do endeavours to see how increase his security.
I want to reassert my gratitude to all those that have taken part and very especially to the speaker, Mr. *Koch.
I regret this, as we have to act because others have not made his work.
The inactivity of the European Union would oblige to the States members to modify his juridical norms *intraestatales for a short period of time, in concrete, until the conclusion of the works of the *CEN, which originates costs and unnecessary insecurities.
A last amendment goes directed to *propiciar that follow  authorising the utilisation of the tanks and vehicles *cisterna that have gone in into use among 1 January 1997 and the entrance in force of this directive, if his construction and maintenance adjust  to the willing.
Conscious also that this is not more than a small step to a main security, ask them to you his compliance for the present report.
It is well that adopt  this directive now because, of the contrary, the States members would see  obliged to modify his national legislations for a very brief term, for a period of transition, thing that, to his time, only would originate unnecessary costs and would augment once again the *quebraderos of head of the citizens in front of the bureaucracy of the EU.
Like this then , I proposed some amendments to the splendid report of my pal, the Mr. *Koch, that were approved by our parliamentary commission.
My amendments refer  to the resistance to the low temperatures of the deposits of transport of these dangerous commodities.
I expect that my proposal was taken in account in the vote of morning.
Gentleman President, if it allows it to me, wanted to manifest him first of all my respect by the form in that you has #carry the agile change in the Presidency during the debate.
For this reason, it does not remain us more than expecting -and would have to decide this in this week- that in the 2001 have, at last, of community regulations for the transport of dangerous commodities by road, so that in this point have a bit of juridical security and also a bit more than security in our roads.
Gentleman President, no only want to thank our pal, the Mr. *Koch, but also to the Vice-president of the Commission for having  pronounced with so much clarity and without equivocal in favour of the security in the field of the transport and in favour of the priority of the security.
The Mr. *Koch has drafted his good report because in the *CEN and also in the frame of the Commission of Economy of the United Nations has not done  the work of way so *expeditiva.
. Gentleman President, again reassert my congratulation to the Mr. *Koch by his work in east another report, that somehow comes to complete the debate that had in the month of October on the transport by railway.
This debate and the modification of the directive at present in force allow us incorporate differential facts that speak of the diversity of our Europe.
I want to say, with regard to the manifested by the Mr. Swoboda regarding the activity of the *CEN, that are *urgiéndoles to that they accelerate to the maximum his work because it would be dramatic that, in spite of the new term, found us inside a year and beak in front of the same difficulties by not to have it concluded.
. Of compliance with the agenda proceeds  to the debate of the report (*A5-0108/1999) of the Mrs. *Schroedter, for the Commission of Regional Politics, Transports and Tourism, on the Communication of the relative Commission to the structural Funds and his coordination with the Cohesion fund: guidelines for the programs of the period 2000-2006 (*COM(1999)344 - *C5-0122/1999- 1999/2127(*COS)).
Gentleman President, is me particularly *grato that my first intervention in the European Parliament touch a question that has considered  of the maximum importance for the part of the United Kingdom that represent in this Parliament, to know, Wales.
Gentleman President, our commission treats these subjects from very diverse points of view, and, in the first place, will speak from the point of view of the investigation.
We consider that it is very positive that the speaker of opinion have incorporated to his own conclusions the proposal of our commission on the need that, in the included countries in the cohesion, expand  the infrastructure of the investigation *emplazando to the Upper Schools and other centres of formation of such way, that loan a better service to the inhabitants of the less developed zones and facilitate the permanence of the qualified people in his zones of origin.
Another subject to the that wanted to loan our attention, especially from the point of view of the industrial politics, is that we had wanted to that, to the hour to schedule the coordination of the Cohesion fund and of the Structural Funds, the Commission had taken more in account the effects of the growth of the services, of the e-commerce and of the use of internet.
Finally, we had wished, in our quality of Commission of Energy, that had highlighted  more the need to subsidise the renewable energies with the Cohesion fund and with the structural Funds, and like this had been able to  increase, applying the coordination of both Funds, the use of the renewable energies, so that the lack of financial resources of the energetic program had seen  compensated by means of the concession of these considerable economic helps.
Gentleman President, wanted to express my deep gratitude to the Mr. *Schroedter by his contribution to this question and for explaining to the pals that am speaking for my pal, the Mr. *Flautre, that it *sucedió in the Commission of Use and Social Affairs but that unfortunately is ailing.
We expect that those that are considering to refuse these amendments offer to the Parliament and to the citizens of his countries that look for employ reasons very powerful to do it.
The Mr. *Flautre underlined in his report an area in which the coordination shines by his absence, although it needs  *imperiosamente.
Besides, the three fourth parts of our agriculturalists are it part time and need *complementos effective to his incomes.
It is important to prevail general criteria of ordination of the territory and of populational balance, and #take the conclusions to which the Commission of Agriculture and Rural Development has arrived in five fundamental appearances, that have been collected only partly by the Commission of Transports, Regional Politics and Tourism in his points 16 and 17.
Gentleman President, gentleman Commissioner, wanted pals, I wanted to begin my intervention appreciating the work that has done the Mrs. *Schroedter, speaker.
And besides, also I want to him appreciate his will of dialogue with the rest of the political groups to the hour to arrive to formulas of commitment in front of this avalanche of amendments, perhaps more than which expected , but that really answer to the importance of the report of the that are speaking.
For us it is important that the conclusions that approve  in this Parliament are #take by the Commission, like minimum in his spirit, because to the height in that we are could look that we are doing here an useless exercise, purely rhetorical.
In our amendments have fixed the importance that for us has the one who produce  the necessary synergies among the structural Funds, the Cohesion fund and the community initiatives, so that his application see  reflected of optimum way, of the most profitable way, in the progressive elimination of inequalities among regions and in the creation of places of work that, in definite, are the two fundamental purposes of the funds of which are speaking.
If it is not like this, if the employers feel  *marginados, if the employers can not take part, do not say already only in the management, but in the reception of these funds, will have lost an opportunity to achieve our aims of way faster.
Also, to achieve our aims, to achieve surpass the inequalities among regions and look for sources of use is important to bet *decididamente by the new technologies, by the nets of transports and of communications and by the renewable energies.
And all this -insist- with the participation of the private company that, joining his endeavours to the of the public administrations, complementing and never obstructing or excluding, is the one who will create social wealth and places of work.
Gentleman President, is of my *incumbencia remember to my pal the Mr. Evans the reason by which Wales has attained in reality the status of Aim I. It is due to the discredited political of his own Conservative Party.
Leave me remember him also that when the leader of his party, the Mr. *Hague, went Secretary of State for Wales raped all the articles of the book of *adicionalidad, something that *propició a severe card of the Commissioner *Wulf-*Mathies around the requirements *regulatorios.
My Group has done important amendments to the two reports that debate  today.
It is important to identify the capacities and the potential of our regions in the sector of tall technology.
The conclusion is that we have to do upsetting in that the guidelines are general, clear and flexible so that they can help to the agents of the programs and to the users of the funds and #take the potential maximum of our new fields of regeneration.
If we can *inculcar a spirit of business activity in our poor regions and *estructuralmente feeble, will situate them in the long run on the way to attract the confidence of the investors, something that will be the key of the future success.
It is as well as we go to judge the success of these guidelines: #depend if the regional politics of the EU, with good guidelines, solid and *capacitadoras, can open new opportunities and allow to our poor regions and *estructuralmente feeble exert fully his paper in the growth and the prosperity of the EU.
Gentleman President, gentleman Commissioner, distinguished pals, wanted to thank the Mrs. *Schroedter by his good report; she has applied  of full to the subject and has taken very well in account, during the work of the parliamentary commission, a lot of modifications that did  in this report.
If we #take the phase of the period that live, the report has gone  expanding too much during his preparation.
Our Group stands out the principle of subsidiariness: the responsibility of the States members and the importance of the local agents in the preparation and execution of the programs.
Our Group also considers very important that take  better in account the territories of *ultramar and the peripheral zones, and want to that it increase  the interaction among the cities and the rural zones.
This report is stupendous and has the support of our Group.
Gentleman President, gentleman Commissioner, *Señorías, like test that this Parliament still has not surpassed the phase of consultative institution and subordinated, the excellent report of my pal of Group Elisabeth *Schroedter has not been able to arrive to the Plenary, because the plans of regional development for the period 2000-2006 of the territories of aim 1 already spend several months in the cabinets of the Commission.
Having all this in account, owe, anyway, demand, from this Assembly that, before they approve  the community frames of support for the quoted period, study them to him and subject them to him to debate in this Assembly to the light precisely of the orientations that today present, as we consider very special his capacity to create places of work in the poorest territories or less developed, with what will contribute to modify the negative tendencies to the existent inequality in the European society and to the advance to a juster Europe.
Gentleman President, would not have to forget that the main and strategic aim of the structural Funds and of cohesion, and of his coordination, is to achieve the economic and social cohesion.
I want to think that he will agree, from his anterior experience of regional President, in proposing some indicators and a strategy in favour of the economic and social cohesion and no only of the productivity.
Gentleman President, give my support to the main proposals of the relative report to the administration of the structural Funds and the Cohesion fund for the period 2000-2006 and to the main recommendations of the report that advise the following: always it has to exist an integrated approach on the cost of the structural Funds and the Cohesion fund of the EU.
Although the urban renewal of our cities is very important, is necessary to look for always a balance in our politics among the promotion of the rural development and the improvement of the lives of the inhabitants of the cities.
It is not our desire build a Europe exclusively of cities.
In conclusion, although the key projects of infrastructure have been funded by the European Fund of Regional Development and the Cohesion fund, have to remember that the Social Fund European has exerted a very important paper in the help to the less accommodated of our society.
The Social Fund European has improved certainly our institutions of third level, has funded our programs of education *postsecundaria and has put in practical plans of big scope to help to combat the juvenile unemployment and of long length, help to the pupils that abandon the school *tempranamente and promote levels taller of literacy of adults.
I do not know if this animates it to be followed in the same direction, but, anyway wanted to leave proof of my congratulation.
Further of this, however, wanted to express my discontent like *isleño owing to the *desinterés by the development of the islands.
From now, gentleman Commissioner, arrives at last the moment of the application of the programs, so that the States members will have to assume also his responsibilities and do well his work.
I think that in the next years, in front of the challenge of the globalisation and of the enlargement to the East, Europe will need more than ever suitable and precise guidelines of face to the programming and the relaunching of his economy.
In this sense, Europe in his set, and each one of the States members in particular, will have to use the best possible all his resources and potentialities and, therefore, also the structural Funds that it has.
To do it is necessary a European Commission that, further of the good intentions, give main transparency to his lines guidelines and encourage  to the maximum in a task of control of the use of these funds by the States members.
Gentleman President, as my pal the Mr. Evans, is for me a special pleasure pose this question in my first intervention in this Camera, especially because I represent a part of the United Kingdom, the *West *Midlands, that has benefited  in particular of the funds of the Aim 2.
The report in yes contains good intentions but, as it is frequent when we treat these questions, suffers from of clarity of purpose and of a solid base for his operation.
This is the reason of why my Group and I are proposing three amendments and additional proposals key to the text, no with the intention to delete it everything of the proposal, but to do it more notable for which have to #carry.
The past experience dictates that, like elect representatives of the European taxpayers, have to and have to demand probity and financial transparency in the outlay and the audit of this money. Therefore, our amendments and additional proposals save relation with attaining what know like indicators of "value in return of money" in the process of the concession of helps.
But, also with too much frequency, in the half point or at the end of this period there is not real way to end up the project if it has not showed  his efficiency.
Therefore, our additional proposals defend the provision of strategies of practical start and that can enforce  so that no only can have of the insurance demanded against the already purchased costs that they are used to  upload to the taxpayer, but also avert the very known syndrome to lose more money when trying recover the already stray.
Gentleman President, gentleman Commissioner, *señorías, wanted to also I congratulate to the speaker by his report; it treats  of an arduous and conscientious work.
We do not forget that these politics, when they are effective, result visible also for the European citizen, that benefits  of them and ascertains the immediate improvement of his quality of life.
We do not forget neither that it will be necessary to devote a particular attention to the most #move# away regions and to the insular regions of the European Union, then , owing to his geographic situation, confront  to fundamental obstacles in his economic and social development; to not being, clear, that the Commission propose  build bridges and underwater tunnels to connect them with the European trunk.
To end up, wanted to stand out that the structural politics in his set require main flexibility, so that they adapt  to the circumstances *cambiantes and that answer of this way to the new challenges and opportunities that present  with the arrival of the new millenium, for which all do the best votes.
It would like us that in the future there was more *osadía in the treatment of the question of the regions *ultraperiféricas, as they are, in the case of my country, the islands Azores and *Madeira.
Gentleman President, in the first place, want to thank the speaker, also by the amiable received that has dispensed in his report to some ours suggestions.
However the aims that in this regard it formulates the Commission, contrary to his purpose to provide orientation, represent rather a catalogue of offers of possible measures in the frame of the fields of the politics.
Nevertheless, his authentic sense is the one to indicate the direction and establish priorities.
Support of special way an amendment of my Group to the section 10, which pretends to ensure a suitable inclusion of the private sector in the planning and execution of the projects.
It would celebrate a lot, lady *Schroedter, that you included this amendment in his positive arguments, precisely also under the appearance of the subsidiariness.
In this sense, gladden me that the Commission of Regional Politics have adopted one of my amendments, that asks that the Commission reserve a special chapter of his next report on the cohesion to the particular case of the *ultraperiferia and, more specifically, to the analysis of the impact of the measures that will adopt  *próximamente in application of the new article 299, paragraph 2, of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Finally, it looks me that the sixth periodic report presents interesting arguments from the point of view of a true project of sustainable development and balanced of the European territory, especially because *sintetiza the importance of the bond among the centre of Europe and his periphery.
Although the Commission still have doubts regarding expressing it of a very explicit way, his periodic report shows us the urgency to favour a development *policéntrico of the community space, through the structural politics of the Union and inside the frame of the management initiated by the *SEC.
Gentleman President, the Group of the Party of the European Socialists of this Parliament agrees with the report that finishes to expose the Mr. *Berend and congratulates to his author, so much by the quality of his conclusions as by his flexibility, that has allowed to incorporate in commission amend pertinent of the different groups.
It has to remember that at present the global competitiveness of the European Union is 81% of the one of the United States of America and that this figure only will improve if it improves the one of our competitive units that they are the regions and this, besides, in a moment in that the technological evolution, the *mundialización economic and our problems, the enlargement and the only coin, do more exigible to the regions, but also to the companies and to the individuals, a main competitive endeavour.
The negative is that this big endeavour that has done  was more effective in the approach of the GDP and of the productivity of the European regions that in the one of his levels of use.
Like this then , gentleman President, ask to my illustrate pals the approval of this report and ask to the Commission, the same that have done other pals, that have very present the conclusions of his Sixth periodic report of face to the programming of the period 2000-2006.
Gentleman President, gentleman Commissioner, distinguished pals, in the first place, want to give him the thanks to the speaker by his good work and for having taken properly in account the amendments proposed during the process of preparation of the report in the parliamentary commission.
The States members have to remember also his responsibilities.
Our Group leans the approval of this report.
Gentleman President, my congratulations for the speaker by his so thorough report.
After all, they are they those that have more knowledge of the regions that are under his responsibility.
Therefore, I give my sincere approval to that the Commission leave in hands of the States members and of the regions the practical preparation and the #set of these measures.
Gentleman President, gentleman Commissioner, *señorías, congratulate to the speaker by the treatment that has given him to this important subject, since the state of the socioeconomic evolution will decide the trial that issue the European citizens on the tarpaulins of our work.
However, the main part of the population would wish to live in his natal region, whenever they gave them  the opportunities for this, or was, if there was work.
It is a society in which any person of humble origin can prosper in the life, so that his children can enjoy of a situation more *desahogada.
. (*FR) Gentleman President, as they have done it all the orators, to my time want to give the thanks to the Mr. *Berend and congratulate it by the quality of this work.
As in the case of the anterior report, this analysis of utmost competition and precision, the recommendations that in him do  and the observations of His *Señorías will be very useful to the Commission in general and, in particular, to the commissioner commissioned of the regional politics, in the moment in that we undertake the programming of the credits 2000-2006.
His *Señoría has underlined the quality and even, if I do not make a mistake, has put by writing that, in relation with the precedents, constitutes a true improvement.
For all the civil servants of the Commission and of my ancestor, the Mrs. *Wulf-*Mathies, have to say him that have been very sensitive to this assessment of the Assembly and of His *Señoría personally.
It is truth that the Commission has  *empeñado, gentleman *Berend, in that this sixth periodic report allow to check that it has done  an endeavour to surpass a qualitative scale in the analysis that proposes  to His *Señorías.
I do not want to detain me now, gentleman speaker, in the detail of my ideas on the general points that this Assembly already has subscribed.
His *Señoría will say me that the growth or the recession do not affect to all.
I agree with his analysis.
The Mr. *Berend expressed his desire that the division in zones made  quickly.
Tomorrow the Commission will give to know his relative decision to four new countries and very soon, expect, will be the turn of Italy.
That is to say that his desire will see  fulfilled, because all the countries involved in the aim 2 will remain divided in zones.
Regarding the economy submerged that His *Señoría signalled in his report, know that the analysis and the statistics on this subject base  in the reliability of the data and, as it has remembered the Mr. *Cocilovo, exists a problem of reliability in these data.
On this subject, that interests me personally, will remember that the little *envergadura of the sector -what does not mean that it was *desdeñable- and his concentration in a very small number of regions do not facilitate his analysis in a regional frame.
This type of sectorial analysis depends rather of the practice and of the competition of the General Direction of Fishing, that is to charge of my pal *Fischler.
Nevertheless, I ensure to His *Señorías that the Commission will encourage  for including an analysis of this type in the second report on the cohesion, that definitely will be more appropriate for these worries.
First of all, I want to ensure them that the fusion of the periodic reports and of the report on the cohesion would not have to involve any loss of information or of interest by the content of the second, that for me, gentleman speaker, is an instrument of extreme importance, no only so that it warn  about what has done  and so that it say  of transparent and rigorous way, so that they examine  or value  the future orientations, but also to create a public debate with the citizens and, further, with the elected by them, that are His *Señorías, on this regional politics and on what could be a day a European politics of management of the territory.
Of any way, have taken good note of the desire to integrate in the report the following points : the definition, the collected and the analysis of the representative indicators for the region and for all the countries of Central and Oriental Europe; a chapter on the islands and the regions *ultraperiféricas that a lot of deputies remembered, especially the Mrs. *Sudre and the Mr. *Fruteau; the relative analyses to the competitiveness of the regions in the case of the countries of Central and Oriental Europe: this will be the big challenge for us, for His *Señorías, for the Commission, in the next years; finally, the appearances *transfronterizos.
In all these subjects will do the main endeavour to follow the recommendations of His *Señorías.
*Señorías, on the way of the real convergence have made  significant progresses, especially in the four States members of the cohesion, but also, gentleman *Pohjamo, say it with frankness, in the regions of the aim 2 that have gone through some delays in the level of his development, especially regarding the infrastructures.
Nevertheless, I have taken good note, in what *respecta in particular to the regions *ultraperiféricas, lady *Sudre, gentleman *Fruteau, and also gentleman *Nogueira Román, that His *Señorías affirm that it still remains a lot for doing -and here is my third point- about the plan of improvement of the content of the recovery of the use, of the fight against the social exclusion, of particular gravity and *insoportable in many of our regions, of the integration of the women and of the youngsters in the market of work.
The fourth political point is the enlargement of the Union: the big political project and humanist of the future years for our institutions, and likewise the main challenge for the politics of cohesion in Europe, a point on which has insisted the Mr. Go *Dam.
It would say I that in Berlin and in the financial instruments places to our disposal outlines  what could be a politics of the cohesion for the first countries that will join  to us.
Already they see it His *Señorías: we finish to launch our new programming, and already are doing together a reflection on the impact of the enlargement of the Union, on our structural politics.
Gentleman President, answer to an invitation done yesterday late by the President of the Assembly to speak for my Group on a subject to the that does  reference in the Record.
Also we would have to have the humility to recognise that, if we wanted to celebrate a strategic debate accompanied no only of an exposure and explanation by the President of the Commission, but also of a program *quinquenal, would have to have the corresponding mechanisms more than a week before the debate in this Assembly to be able to debate and transmit our desires to time to the Commission.
After examining some of the chronicles of the press the past Friday, think that the Commission and his President gave tests of a *encomiable self-supervision in his public commentaries.
I comprise the sense of his intervention and take note of this.
We take note of his observation, lady Ahern.
Allow me that pray him that it communicate to the *cuestores this particular case, that affects to the fans of a concrete plant, since in reality it treats  of a subject of his competition.
Anyway, also we will put it in knowledge of our services.
His subject is a procedure of modernisation of the norms *antimonopolio European, specifically the report von Wogau, that has been very discussed, a lot of more than what maybe indicates the result of the vote in the Commission of Economic Subjects.
Today also they debate , nevertheless, the report on the public helps and the general report on the politics of competition - 1998, and my intervention in this conjoint debate refers  to this last.
The reading of both documents of the Commission shows that in 1998 continued  and in some appearances completed  the project of modernisation initiated in 1997, as we also know by our parliamentary works in course.
The Commission, in his quality of competent authority, always has maintained a consistent attitude to the service of the free competition, that no always has been very received by the States members or the companies affected.
In effect, no only it is important a modernisation of the community Right, but also, more than in any another moment, the transparency of the decisions in each individual case, the possibility that the decisions also result intelligible, all time that the success of the politics of European competition will #depend his acceptance among the population, as well as among the political organisms and companies interested.
In our resolution pose him a series of proposals, gentleman Commissioner, but I wanted to highlight now a particular appearance: the transparency and the obligation to surrender accounts go joined.
It is not my intention go back to #stir the subject of the distribution of competitions among the Commission and the Parliament.
The Commission is the executive organ and the Parliament would not have to pretend *erigirse in such, in interest of his own independence, but the Parliament is an organ of control and exists *acaso a more suitable place that the democratically chosen Parliament to justify the decisions that adopt , precisely in the frame of a permanent parliamentary debate?
Regarding the Commission, expect that it exhaust until his last consequences all the possibilities of parliamentary participation, that in case of doubt bend  in favour of the participation of the Parliament, already in the frame of the current disposals of the Treaty.
Also I expect that the Commission lean actively our claims of the right of *codecisión in the legislative procedure.
They can not  put in the pillory all the helps; these have to consider  of way differentiated and also have to  evaluate in terms of his contribution to the achievement of the before quoted aims.
. (*FR) Gentleman President, gentleman Commissioner, my wanted pals, the report that today have the occasion to present them is an opinion on the annual report of the relative Commission to the state helps in force in the heart of the European Union and on which the Community has competition in virtue of the articles 87, 88 and 89 of the Treaties.
Thus, it corresponds to the States and to the regions look after the quality of the proportionate data, and our commission estimates that they have to make complementary endeavours in this sense.
In this same spirit, our parliamentary commission defends the already ancient idea of a public register of the state helps to the that can access , in particular, through Internet.
And in the measure in that they already exist some of these studios, give to know of a more opened way his own commentaries in fulfillment of the aims of the Treaties, that are no only guarantee the competitiveness of the European economy, but also the sustainable development and the economic and social cohesion.
When insisting like this, in the first place, in the quality of the proportionate information, our debate in commission and, therefore, the report that have the honour to present them, has averted the *simplismo that would consist in affirming a priori that the amount of the state helps in the absolute is or too high or no the sufficiently high.
It wanted to conclude this presentation, gentleman Commissioner, insisting, on the one hand, in the worry of the members of the commission and, by another, in a requirement of our commission.
It treats  here certainly of a complex question on which would wish that the Commission give us to know the current state of the dossier, in particular, from the point of view of the capacity of the economies in road of adhesion to fulfil the norms of competition and, regarding the state helps, the likely need to establish specific norms in matter of state helps that favour the restructuring of his sectors.
Our report, as you knows, gentleman Commissioner, defends the idea that the procedure of *codecisión was in force for the legislation of base in matter of state helps.
. (OF) Gentleman President, gentleman Commissioner, *Señorías, my participation in the present debate has like subject the Code of Helps to the Siderurgy, or was the public helps awarded in Europe of compliance with said Code and controlled by the Commission.
In 1998 they examined  a total of 27 cases, on which the Commission has elaborated his own report.
Therefore, the subject that today has to concern us is especially the one of the future application of the helps to the siderurgy The European Parliament receives with satisfaction the decisions that exposes the Commission in his report, included the relative to the return of a help received in a concrete case, in application of the article 88 of the Treaty *CECA.
In the last years, there has been, however, evident problems in the practical application of the Code of Helps to the Siderurgy that do not expose  in all his details in the report.
In a relative report to the year 1999 that still is  drafting, urges  to the Commission to that it expose of way detailed his active participation in the preparation of plans of restructuring and the exceptions authorised, to end to be able to make an objective evaluation of the global circumstances on this base.
After the unanimous approval of the report with two abstentions in the Commission of Economic and Monetary Subjects, I ask to the Plenary that spend advance in all his full appearances the proposal that now present.
Gentleman President, estimated and estimated pals, in my quality of novel euro-deputy, is a satisfaction for me can take part for the first time in the Plenary, although it was with a true delay.
No longer they could limit to present a notification and expect the permission, but each one would have to assume his own responsibility, and perhaps this explain the unrest that the proposal has generated among some.
It is necessary a main participation of the Parliament and the creation of a register that allow to check the degree of state fulfillment also could contribute to improve the discipline among the States members, to my look.
Cases in which a region has contributed with his own endeavour to the commercialisation of his products.
To my way to see, also is necessary that suppress  the norm of *minimis.
Before finishing, a last consideration on the principle of subsidiariness: to my look is urgently necessary that maintain  the competition of the regions and the municipalities to collect taxes in the cases in which the States members allow it, and that this do not regulate  of uniform way from Europe.
Allow me that congratulate him by what in the German parliamentarism designates  -*injustificadamente in his case- as the "speech of première" (*Jungfernrede).
Gentleman President, gentleman Commissioner, wanted pals, take part for my pal Robert *Goebbels, that has had to *ausentarse to attend to a political commitment.
Although our Parliament pursued mostly this concept *ultraliberal of a purportedly perfect market, the world would not change for that.
Gentleman President, estimated Commissioner and estimated mates, will begin expressing my gratitude to the Mr. *Rapkay by the good report that has made and the good collaboration.
They are three fields in which a lot of Danish companies cross grave problems and are seeing  pushed out of his markets.
I want to say him to the Mr. *Poos that am very in accordance with the Mr. *Duisenberg in that these cases exemplify how some of the countries European members are not in conditions to restructure his economies and with this contribute to *minar the value of the euro.
It would like me take advantage of this opportunity to thank my mates in the commission by his support to the amendments of the Liberal Group.
Our proposals, as I have said, refer  to the transparency and would like me stand out the amendment that exhorts to the Commission to that present criteria and uniform conditions for the type of state helps that consider legal, precisely to guarantee that the companies can predict his situation.
Finally, we propose the preparation by a part of a register, as they have mentioned varied of my mates, and on the other hand also of a table of results that show the situation of the countries regarding the state helps.
This is the source of inspiration of our proposal of a similar table for the state helps.
I expect and I trust that you, Commissioner *Monti, back these proposals and await his commentaries and his posture in this regard.
However, as I already have mentioned, our last purpose has to keep on being the transparency and the clarity.
Especially it is necessary in regard to the next enlargement and would want to express him my gratitude to the Mr. *Jonckheer, the one who has treated in his report very conscientiously all the problems related with the enlargement and with how ensure us that these countries fulfil our requirements and also that we compete in equality of conditions.
It is evident that like liberal and green have different conceptions of the world, however, in our aims are to a large extent of agreement and will treat to find a reasonable solution to our problems.
This looks us relatively dangerous, but nevertheless will give him our favourable vote, because we recognise that the Commission can not do it everything.
Frankly, it would not have to occupy our debate of this situation?
The workers confront  to the main assault to his labour and social rights.
The consumers assist to the *merma of his standard of living, to the generalisation of the poverty and to the disarticulation and dissolution of the public sector and of the productive base of the majority of the countries of the Union, for a violent and *desoladora competition, for the absolute market economy and of the impulse of the interests *monopolistas of the big capital.
We consider also responsible of all this to the politics of competition that exerts , and express our complete rejection to this politics.
In this field, the Commission has given priority to several axes of action: act on the structure of the markets through the active research of practices of fight against the corruption, orient the activity of control of his services only to the subjects that present a self-evident community interest and mark his will of modernisation of the Right of the competition.
The national States would convert  like this in the secular arm of the Commission for the fulfillment of the application of some norms that escape to his competition.
While the criteria of the *UEM oblige to the States members to that they reduce his costs, maintains  the tall level of state helps to the private company.
Therefore, the amendments 6 and 7 of the speaker deserve our support.
Gentleman President, a White Book, by definition, is not done to take or leave, his function is the one to cause responses and this White Book has achieved it.
I trust also in that you, Commissioner, want to maintain the reputation and the work done by his predecessors and that his services have the same aim.
In third place would like me know if the Commission has researched which will be the consequences of his new politics regarding the strategy of the companies.
In fifth place is the imminent enlargement and ask me if the countries candidates are prepared for our game.
In sixth and last place signal a question that already remembered in my report on the vertical restrictions, that is to say the "legal " *privilege" of the lawyers of company.
If the Commission makes his proposals of the White Book, looks me that it will augment  the discrimination in the inner market among the external juridical aides and interns and that will do  therefore more unacceptable.
Gentleman Commissioner, do him these questions like defender of the inner market and expect that in this sense are partners and that the discussion among these partners do not do  in vain but it give his fruits.
Gentleman President, want that my first words, when initiating my intervention on the White Book, are of congratulation to the speaker, Mr. von Wogau.
Of the tall degree of coincidence of the Group of the Party of the European Socialists with his report is evident test that have presented  in this formality an alone amendment.
In the actuality, know his *señorías that there are slopes two questions *prejudiciales in front of the Court of Justice, posed by both German courts, in which it questions  if possible apply the article 81.1 without being able to apply the 81.3.
The voices in favour of his modification were unanimous.
One of the most frequent critiques that do  of the community Right of the competition is his excessive formalism.
Like consequence of the continental juridical tradition, the consideration that determinate agreements are or no *anticompetitivos depends more than the analysis of his clauses that of the effects in the market.
The White Book pretends to resolve these problems and, therefore, lean his proposals.
Now well, if they approve  some of the amendments, particularly the presented by the parliamentary Group of the *PPE, would consider that the report would remain *desvirtuado, would #turn a contradictory document, lacking of rigour and, in this supposition, would reconsider our support.
Gentleman President, *Señorías, among the diverse subjects that contemplate  in this conjoint debate, would wish to do a reflection on which has treated our pal *Berenguer, that is to say, the modernisation of the politics of the competition, to which does reference the White Book of the Commission.
The Commissioner *Monti obtains good results in his management, the same that his predecessor and, obviously, has established the guarantee that, of parallel way to the creation and to the development of the inner market European, has been able to establish the corresponding *correctivos so that the market economy inside the Union work adequately, without the deviations that the economists know that they can exist when  wide the market, as it has occurred in the European Union from the year 1993.
They have presented  diverse arguments to his favour.
The Mr. *Berenguer has offered a very adjusted analysis, justifying his need and the consistent reforms to improve the operation of the competition, but my worry is the one to ensure that the standards and criteria that will apply  through the corresponding administrations of the States members are really everywhere identical.
Gentleman President, wanted to certify in the first place my recognition to the Commission by the improvement that represents the XXVIII report on the politics of competition in the Union, with regard to editions precedents.
And also I want to him lean fully in his commentary on the need to leave to the regions -as the Basque Country, to the *cual represent- a margin of action in virtue of the principle of subsidiariness.
However, I can not forget the critiques made in numerous occasions so much by the States members as by the operators of the market, that, in front of the wide margin of manoeuvre, of *discrecionalidad, recognised to the Commission to evaluate each concrete case, allege the existence of a juridical insecurity, to the not existing some clear rules of game that allow to the interested foresee the position of the authority and, like this, effect tightly his applications of help to the promotion of the economic activity and of the use, the approach of fusions of companies, etc.
Gentleman President, *Señorías, want to underline that, in a period of big changes from the technological point of view -suffices with seeing what is occurring in the sector of the information or in other sectors like the energy and the transports- the protection of the competition *revestirá a fundamental importance for our future.
I consider that, from the point of view of the economic growth and, therefore, of the increase of the use and of the wealth, defend a politics of competition in our States #turn a factor determinant and, definitely, fundamental for our future.
I repeat that this will be very important for our future, for the economy of Europe and, especially, to protect our wealths and the technological development of Europe in general.
This is what has done our speaker in the Commission of Economic and Monetary Subjects, the Mr. von Wogau.
I want to congratulate it, in spite of that, lamentably, is not present, by the complete and rigorous form as it has undertaken the preparation of his report... And also for having me endured like a spine nailed in his side!
Before it has said that the report has approved  with an important majority, but no with my support.
So that, although I can not sharing his conclusions, think that has illustrated in his report many of the questions that the Commission has to accost.
